About the Telco Cloud Platform Upgrade Guide
   VMware Telco Cloud Platform™ is a cloud-native platform powered by field-proven VMware Telco Cloud
   Infrastructure™ coupled with automation. It provides a cloud-first approach that delivers operational agility
   for virtual, cloud-native 5G, and Edge network functions. Telco Cloud Platform helps Communication
   Service Providers (CSPs) roll out 5G networks and deploy 5G applications, solutions, and services more
   quickly across the multi-cloud infrastructure.
   This Platform Upgrade Guide describes the process of upgrading Telco Cloud Platform to release 5.0.2
   based on Telco Cloud Platform Reference Architecture. Before upgrading the Telco Cloud solution
   components, ensure that you are knowledgeable on the following:
   •   Telco Cloud Platform architectural concepts and deployment scenarios. For more information, see the
       VMware Telco Cloud Reference Architecture Guide.
   •   Telco Cloud Platform design considerations. For more information, see the VMware Telco Cloud
       Planning and Design Guide.
   •   Upgrade procedures of the Telco Cloud Platform components. For more information, see the
       documentation of each component.
   Intended Audience
   This guide is for telecommunications and solution architects, sales engineers, field consultants, advanced
   services specialists, and customers who want to upgrade Telco Cloud Platform.


Telco Cloud Platform Architecture
   VMware Telco Cloud Platform combines VMware Telco Cloud Infrastructure and VMware Telco Cloud
   Automation™. VMware Telco Cloud Infrastructure is an evolution of VMware vCloud® NFV™. VMware
   Telco Cloud Automation contains multi-domain orchestration and automation capability. VMware Telco
   Cloud Platform also embeds Tanzu Kubernetes Grid that allows CSPs to build, manage, and run
   containerized workloads across private, telco, edge, and public clouds.
   To manage massive data traffic, 5G is designed for a distributed architecture. The user plane and control
   plane are separated, and the data center and network infrastructure are based on hierarchical multi-tiered
   layers. For more information about each layer, see the Telco Cloud Reference Architecture Guide. For
   design considerations of components in each layer, see Telco Cloud Planning and Design Guide.




                                                                                                                   238
                                            Telco Cloud
                                                                           4G/ 5G VNF
                                          Solutions Layer
        Live Site Recovery


                                                                    Telco Cloud
                                                                                                       Harbor
                                                                    Automation
                                            Telco Cloud
         Backup& Restore                  Platform Layer
                                                                    Tanzu
                                                                                                       vDefend
                                                                    Kubernetes
                                                                                                       Firewall
                                                                    Grid


                                                                                                       VMware
                                                                    Cloud
        vSphere Replication                                                                            Integrated
                                            Telco Cloud             Director
                                                                                                       OpenStack
                                          Infrastructure
                                                Layer                                              SDDC
                                                                    vSphere
                                                                                                   Manager


                                              Physical
                                          Infrastructure            Compute                            Storage
        Business Continuity
                                                Layer
                Layer

    Figure 41: Building Blocks of Telco Cloud Platform


Upgrade Overview
    This section contains the following information about upgrading VMware Telco Cloud Platform:
    •   Supported upgrade paths
    •   Upgrade sequence

Telco Cloud Platform Upgrade Path
    VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.2 supports the following upgrade paths:

                                                                                                             239
•   Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.1 > 5.0.2
•   Telco Cloud Platform 5.0 > 5.0.2
•   Telco Cloud Platform 4.0.1 > 5.0.2
•   Telco Cloud Platform 4.0 > 5.0.2
•   Telco Cloud Platform 3.0 > 5.0.2
If you are using Telco Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Director Edition, you can upgrade to Telco Cloud
Platform 5.0.2 in the following sequence:
•   Telco Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Director Edition 3.0 > Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.2
•   Telco Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Director Edition 2.7 > Telco Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Director
    Edition 3.0 > Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.2
•   Telco Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Director Edition 2.2 > Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.2
    Important! When upgrading VMware Cloud Director from Telco Cloud Infrastructure 2.2, you must
    follow this upgrade sequence: 10.3.3.x > 10.4.3 > 10.6.1
The following table lists the source and target versions of the components to be upgraded:
•   To download these components, see the VMware Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads page.
•   Depending on whether you upgrade the CNF or VNF workload deployment, you can skip upgrading the
    components that are not relevant.
•   For the latest updates to the supported versions of these components, see the Telco Cloud Platform
    5.0.2 Release Notes.
Important:
Calico Add-on Update: After upgrading Telco Cloud Automation from 3.2 to 3.3.0.1, an additional
notification may appear on workload clusters indicating that an add-on upgrade is available.
A new version of Calico for Workload Clusters 1.27, 1.28, 1.29, and 1.30 is introduced in this release.
When these clusters are upgraded to the TCA 3.3.0.1 TBR, even if the Kubernetes version remains the
same, the Calico add-on update gets deployed which might cause a minor service fluctuation. This add-on
update is recommended as it contains Calico fixes.

 Component       Telco Cloud     Telco Cloud    Telco Cloud    Telco Cloud     Telco Cloud     Telco Cloud
                 Platform 3.0    Platform 4.0   Platform       Platform 5.0    Platform        Platform
                                                4.0.1                          5.0.1           5.0.2

 VMware          8.0b or 8.0     8.0 U2b        8.0 U2b        8.0 U3          8.0 U3d         8.0 U3d
 ESXi™           U1

 VMware          8.0b, 8.0 U1,   8.0 U2c        8.0 U2c        8.0 U3          8.0 U3d         8.0 U3d
 vCenter         or 8.0 U1d

 VMware          8.0b or 8.0     8.0 U2b        8.0 U2b        8.0 U3          8.0 U3d         8.0 U3d
 vSAN™           U1

 VMware          NA              10.4.2         10.4.2         10.6            10.6.1          10.6.1
 Cloud
 Director™

 VMware Aria 8.11.1 or           8.16.1         8.16.1         8.18            8.18.1          8.18.1
 Automation     8.12
 Orchestrator™
 (formerly
 vRealize®
 Orchestrator™)



                                                                                                             240
Component     Telco Cloud    Telco Cloud    Telco Cloud    Telco Cloud    Telco Cloud   Telco Cloud
              Platform 3.0   Platform 4.0   Platform       Platform 5.0   Platform      Platform
                                            4.0.1                         5.0.1         5.0.2

VMware       4.1.0.2 or      4.1.2.1        4.1.2.1        4.2            4.2.1.3       4.2.1.3
NSX®         4.1.1
(formerly
NSX-T™
Data Center)

VMware      2.3              3.1            3.1.1          3.2            3.3           3.3.0.1
Telco Cloud
Automation™

VMware        2.3            3.1            3.1.1          3.2            3.3           3.3.0.1
Telco Cloud
Automation
Airgap Server

Harbor for    NA             NA             2.9.3          2.10.2         2.10.2        2.10.2.2
CNFs
                                            Note: 2.10.2
                                            is also
                                            supported.

VMware        2.1.1          2.5            2.5.1          2.5.2          2.5.2         2.5.2
Tanzu™
                             Note: 2.1.1    Note: 2.1.1    Note: 2.1.1    Note: 2.1.1   Note: 2.1.1.
Kubernetes
                             is also        is also        is also        is also       is also
Grid™                        supported.     supported.     supported.     supported.    supported.

VMware®       22.1.3         22.1.6         22.1.6         30.2.1         30.2.2        30.2.2
Avi™ Load
Balancer
(formerly
VMware
NSX®
Advanced
Load
Balancer™)

Avi           1.9            1.11.3         1.11.3         1.12.2         1.12.3        1.12.3
Kubernetes
Operator
(AKO)

VMware      NA               4.0            4.0            4.0            4.0           4.0
Bare Metal
Automation™
for VMware
Telco Cloud
Platform™

VMware Aria 8.10.2           8.18           8.18           8.18           8.18.3        8.18.6
Operations™



                                                                                                       241
    Component      Telco Cloud    Telco Cloud    Telco Cloud   Telco Cloud    Telco Cloud    Telco Cloud
                   Platform 3.0   Platform 4.0   Platform      Platform 5.0   Platform       Platform
                                                 4.0.1                        5.0.1          5.0.2

    VMware Aria 8.10.2            8.16           8.16          8.18           8.18.3         8.18.3
    Operations™
    for Logs

    VMware Aria 6.9               6.12.1         6.12.1        6.13           6.13           6.13
    Operations™
    for Networks

    VMware         NA             9.0            9.0           9.0.2          9.0.2          9.0.2
    vSphere®
    Replication™

    VMware         NA             9.0            9.0           9.0.2          9.0.2          9.0.2
    Live Site
    Recovery™
    (formerly
    VMware Site
    Recovery
    Manager™)

   Note:
   •   AKO: To know the AKO version that is compatible with VMware Tanzu Kubernetes Grid and
       Kubernetes versions, see the AKO Compatibility Guide.
   •   ESXi,vCenter, andvSAN: Additional patch versions such as 8.0 U3x are supported.
   •   NSX: Additional patch versions such as 4.2.x are supported.
   •   Aria Operations, Aria Operations for Logs, Aria Automation Orchestrator: Additional minor
       versions such as 8.18.x are supported.
   •   Cloud Director: Additional patch versions such as 10.6.x are supported.
   •   Aria Operations for Networks: Additional patch versions such as 6.13.x are supported.
   •   vSphere Replication and Live Site Recovery: Additional patch versions such as 9.0.x are supported.

Upgrade Sequence
   The Telco Cloud Platform components have interdependencies. You must follow a specific upgrade
   sequence to avoid interoperability issues and for a minimal impact on running workloads.
   Upgrade Sequence for CNF Workloads
   The following figure illustrates the sequence in which you upgrade the components of Telco Cloud
   Platform:




                                                                                                            242
                                          Upgrade Begin




                                Yes           Is Airgap
            Airgap Server                       Server
                                              Installed ?



                                                            No

                                        Telco Cloud Automation


                                          Harbor for CNFs




                                  Yes
                                              Is Avi Load
           Avi Load Balancer                    Balancer
                                               installed ?



                                                       No

                               Tanzu Kubernetes Management Cluster




                                  Yes           Is AKO
                 AKO *                        installed in
                                               workload
                                                cluster ?


                                                       No

                                Tanzu Kubernetes Workload Cluster




                                                                  No
                                               Full Stack



                                                      Yes

                                   Aria Automation Orchestrator



                                                  NSX


                                       vSphere ‘Management ’
                                   vCenter Server -> ESXi -> vSAN


                                         vSphere ‘Resource ’
* Ensure that AKO is               (vCenter Server -> ESXi -> vSAN )
compatible with
Kubernetes versions .                                                  243
                                          Upgrade Complete
    Upgrade Sequence for VNF Workloads
    The following table lists the sequence in which you upgrade the components of Telco Cloud Infrastructure
    Cloud Director Edition.

     Telco Cloud               Management Pod            Resource and Edge             Disaster Recovery Pod
     Infrastructure - Cloud                              Pod
     Director Edition
     components

     VMware Cloud Director     1
     Cells and Database

     VMware vSphere            2                                                       4
     Replication

     VMware Live Site          3                                                       5
     Recovery

     NSX Edge -> host VIBs - 6                           6
     > Manager Upgrade

     VMware Aria Operations 6
     for Networks

     VMware vCenter™       7                             11                            8
     Server/VMware vSphere
     Update Manager

     VMware ESXi & VMware 10                             12                            9
     vSAN
                          Note: All the ESXi             Note: All the ESXi            Note: All the ESXi
                          Servers from the cluster       Servers from the cluster      Servers from the cluster
                          will be rebooted after this    will be rebooted after this   will be rebooted after this
                          upgrade.                       upgrade.                      upgrade.

     VMware Aria Automation 13
     Orchestrator

     VMware Aria for Logs      13

     VMware Aria Operations 13

     VMware Avi Load           14
     Balancer



Upgrade Prerequisites
    Ensure that the following prerequisites are met before upgrading VMware Telco Cloud Platform:
    •   Upgrade Checklist
    •   Snapshot and Backup Requirements

Telco Cloud Platform Upgrade Checklist
    VMware Telco Cloud Platform follows strict product upgrade guidelines. You must adhere to the upgrade
    checklist before performing the upgrade.


                                                                                                                     244
   1. Ensure that the existing Telco Cloud solution deployed in your production environment is functional.
   2. Ensure that the Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.2 bundle is downloaded and accessible.
   3. Ensure that the production environment has enough storage capacity for backups and snapshots.
   4. Take a snapshot and back up the management components of the Telco Cloud solution in the
      production environment.
   5. Ensure that all the components of the Telco Cloud solution in the production environment are patched
      to the latest.
   6. Based on the components identified in the Upgrade Sequence section, develop an upgrade plan for the
      Telco Cloud solution.

Snapshot and Backup Requirements
   Before you upgrade the Telco Cloud solution components, ensure that you take snapshots and backups of
   all the components as a prerequisite. If a component upgrade fails, you can use the snapshot and backup
   to restore the component to its previous version.
   •   VMware Cloud Director (cells and database):
       1. Take a snapshot of the VMware Cloud Director appliance. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot
          of a VM.
       2. Back up the embedded database of the VMware Cloud Director appliance. For instructions, see
          Backup and Restore of VMware Cloud Director Appliance.
   •   vSphere Replication: Take a snapshot of the vSphere Replication Appliance VM. For instructions, see
       Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
   •   Live Site Recovery: Take a snapshot of the Live Site Recovery virtual appliance and Back Up the
       Embedded vPostgres Database. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM and Back Up the
       Embedded Database.
   •   vCenter:
       •  Take a VM snapshot of the vCenter appliance. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
       •  Create a file-based backup of the vCenter appliance using the vCenter interface. For instructions,
          see File-Based Backup and Restore of vCenter Server.
   •   NSX Manager: Back up the NSX Manager configuration. For instructions, see Backing Up and
       Restoring NSX Manager or Global Manager.
   •   ESXi and vSAN: Back up the ESXi host configuration. For instructions, see KB2042141.
   •   Aria Operations for Networks: Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations for Networks deployment.
       For instructions, see KB55829 and Backup a VMware Aria Operations for Networks Deployment.
   •   Aria Automation Orchestrator: Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Automation Orchestrator deployment.
       For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
              CAUTION:
               Aria Automation Orchestrator 8.x does not support memory snapshots. Before taking the
               snapshot, ensure that theSnapshot the virtual machine's memory option is deactivated.
   •   Aria Operations for Logs: Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations for Logs cluster nodes. For
       instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
   •   Aria Operations: Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations nodes. For instructions, see Creating a
       Snapshot of a VM.
   •   Telco Cloud Automation: Take a VM snapshot of the Telco Cloud Automation appliance. For
       instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
   •   Avi Load Balancer: Take a VM snapshot of Avi Load Balancer. For instructions, see Creating a
       Snapshot of a VM.




                                                                                                               245
Upgrading Telco Cloud Platform
    This section outlines the high-level steps to upgrade the required and optional components of VMware
    Telco Cloud Platform. For detailed instructions, refer to the corresponding component documentation.


Upgrade VMware Cloud Director
    This section describes how to upgrade VMware Cloud Director to 10.6.1.
    •   Verify that you have superuser credentials for the VMware Cloud Director Cells in your VMware Cloud
        Director server group.
    •   Verify that all ESXi hosts are enabled. Starting with VMware Cloud Director 10.3.2a, deactivated ESXi
        hosts are not supported.
    •   Back up the embedded database of the VMware Cloud Director appliance. For instructions, see Backup
        and Restore of VMware Cloud Director Appliance.
    •   Take a snapshot of the primary VMware Cloud Director appliance. For instructions, see Creating a
        Snapshot of a VM.
    1. Upgrade the VMware Cloud Director appliance to 10.6.1.
        If the vCenter gets disconnected after upgrading VMware Cloud Director, reconnect vCenter from the UI
        as follows:
        a. Navigate to Resources > Infrastructure Resources > vCenter Server Instances.
        b. Select the vCenter Instance.
        c. Click Reconnect.
       For more information, see KB78885.
    2. If Avi Load Balancer (formerly NSX Advanced Load Balancer) was deployed as part of VMware Cloud
       Director, upgrade Avi Load Balancer.

Upgrade vSphere Replication
    To upgrade vSphere Replication, you must upgrade the required components in your vSphere Replication
    environment.
    Take a snapshot of the vSphere Replication Appliance VM. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a
    VM.
            CAUTION:
            •   Before upgrading the components on the recovery site, you must upgrade all components on the
                protected site.
            •   During the upgrade, if there are issues that prevent you from accessing the protected site, use
                the recovery site to restore the protected site to its original state.
    Upgrade vSphere Replication to 9.0.2.

Upgrade Live Site Recovery
    When you upgrade VMware Live Site Recovery you must complete all the upgrade tasks on the protected
    site first and then start the upgrade tasks on the recovery site.
    •   Take a snapshot of the Live Site Recovery virtual appliance. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot
        of a VM.
    •   Follow the Prerequisites and Best Practices for Live Site Recovery Upgrade.
    •   Ensure that vSphere Replication is upgraded to version 9.0.2.
    Note:




                                                                                                                  246
   During the Live Site Recovery upgrade, Live Site Recovery is unavailable until both vSphere Replication
   and Live Site Recovery are upgraded to version 9.0.2 on the protected and recovery sites.
   Upgrade the Live Site Recovery virtual appliance to 9.0.2.

Upgrading Telco Cloud Automation
   This section describes how to upgrade VMware Telco Cloud Automation to 3.3.0.1.
   Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.2 supports the following Telco Cloud Automation upgrade paths:
   •   Telco Cloud Automation 3.3 > 3.3.0.1
   •   Telco Cloud Automation 3.2 > 3.3.0.1
   •   Telco Cloud Automation 3.1.1 > 3.3.0.1
   •   Telco Cloud Automation 3.1 > 3.3.0.1
   •   Telco Cloud Automation 2.3 > 3.3.0.1

   Upgrade Telco Cloud Automation from Release 3.1 or Later to 3.3.0.1
   This section describes how to upgrade VMware Telco Cloud Automation from release 3.1 or later to
   3.3.0.1.
   •   Ensure that components of Telco Cloud Automation 3.1 or later are activated.
   •   Back up the Telco Cloud Automation Manager and Telco Cloud Automation Control Plane appliances.
       For instructions, see Backing Up and Restoring the System in the Telco Cloud Automation Deployment
       Guide.
   •   Download the Telco Cloud Automation 3.3.0.1 Upgrade bundle from the Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.2
       Advanced downloads page.
   1. If you have an existing Airgap server in Telco Cloud Automation 3.1 or later, upgrade the Airgap server
      to Telco Cloud Automation 3.3.0.1. For instructions, see Upgrade Airgap Appliance.
   2. Upgrade the Telco Cloud Automation Manager and Telco Cloud Automation Control Plane appliances.
      For instructions, see Upgrading VMware Telco Cloud Automation.
   1. Verify that you have successfully upgraded Telco Cloud Automation:
       a. Open the Telco Cloud Automation web interface.
       b. Verify that the dashboard displays the upgraded version number of Telco Cloud Automation.
       c. Verify that all the services are up and running by logging in to one of the following URLs:
        • https://<TCA Manager_FQDN>:9443
        • https://<TCA Control Plane_FQDN>:9443
   2. Update the existing Harbor with ca.crt under TCA Manager > Infrastructure > Partner Systems.
       Note:
      Applies only to Harbor that is using a private CA-signed or self-signed certificate.
   3. Verify and fix the alerts displayed on the TCA-M dashboard.

Upgrade Harbor for CNFs
   Harbor is an open-source registry that stores helm charts and container images required for CNF
   deployments. You can deploy and upgrade Harbor as a CNF through Telco Cloud Automation.
   To download Harbor for CNFs, see Drivers & Tools on the Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.2 Advanced
   downloads page.
   Upgrade Harbor for CNFs. For instructions, see the Harbor for CNFs Deployment and Configuration Guide.
          Attention:
          Harbor for CNFs is packaged as part of Telco Cloud Platform from release 4.0.1 onwards. This
          upgrade procedure is applicable when you deployed Harbor as a CNF in Telco Cloud Platform 4.0.1
          or later.


                                                                                                                247
Upgrade Avi Load Balancer
   This section describes how to upgrade Avi Load Balancer to 30.2.3.
   1. Take a snapshot and backup of the AVI controllers.
   2. Ensure that the Avi Load Balancer versions is compatible with Avi Kubernetes Operator (AKO). To
      identify the compatible versions, see the AKO Compatibility Matrix.
   You can download Avi Load Balancer from the VMware Avi Load Balancer Downloads page.
   Upgrade Avi Load Balancer. For instructions, see Upgrade Guide.
   Avi Load Balancer is upgraded successfully, and applications are accessible.

Upgrade Avi Kubernetes Operator
   This section describes how to upgrade Avi Kubernetes Operator (AKO) to 1.13.3.
   1. Ensure that Avi Load Balancer is upgraded.
   2. Ensure that the AKO version is compatible with the supported Kubernetes versions. For more
      information, see the AKO Compatibility Matrix.
   3. (Applies only when upgrading AKO using Helm) If you are using an Airgap environment, ensure that the
      Helm charts are published in the local repository.
   You can download AKO from the VMware Avi Load Balancer Downloads page.
   If you installed AKO using Helm, upgrade AKO by using Helm. For instructions, see the Upgrade AKO
   section in Install AKO.

Upgrade Tanzu Kubernetes Clusters
   VMware Telco Cloud Automation is integrated with VMware Tanzu Kubernetes Grid. To upgrade Tanzu
   Kubernetes Grid to 2.5.4, you must first upgrade the Tanzu Kubernetes management clusters and then the
   Tanzu Kubernetes workload clusters.
   If Tanzu Kubernetes clusters are deployed in an airgap environment, ensure that the airgap server is
   upgraded first. For information about the Kubernetes upgrade compatibility for clusters, see:
   •   Upgrade Management Cluster Kubernetes Version.
   •   Upgrade Workload Cluster Kubernetes Version.
   1. Download the latest version of the Kubernetes Cluster templates that you use to upgrade the Tanzu
      Kubernetes cluster.
      To download Tanzu Kubernetes Grid, go to the Drivers & Tools section on the Telco Cloud Platform
      Advanced downloads page.
   2. Import the Kubernetes Cluster OVA into vSphere where the Tanzu Kubernetes cluster is located, and
      convert the OVA into a template.
   3. Upgrade the Tanzu Kubernetes management cluster. For instructions, see Upgrade the Kubernetes
      Version for a Cluster Instance.
      Repeat Step 3 to upgrade each Tanzu Kubernetes management cluster sequentially.
   4. Upgrade the Tanzu Kubernetes workload clusters. For instructions, see Upgrade Kubernetes Version
      for Workload Cluster Instance.
       Repeat Step 4 to upgrade each Tanzu Kubernetes workload cluster.
   VMware Tanzu Kubernetes Clusters are upgraded successfully. All pods in the cluster are up and running.
   Update the Kubernetes version in the cluster templates:
   1. In the Telco Cloud Automation UI, navigate to Infrastructure > CaaS Infrastructure > Cluster templates.
   2. Edit the templates that show compatibility errors.
   3. Change the Kubernetes version to the latest one.


                                                                                                                248
Upgrade NSX
   You can upgrade VMware NSX to 4.2.2.1 using the upgrade coordinator. The upgrade coordinator resides
   in the NSX Manager and orchestrates the NSX components upgrade inside ESXi hosts, NSX Edge cluster,
   and NSX management plane. The upgrade process involves upgrading the components in the following
   sequence: VMware NSX Edges, ESXi Hosts, and NSX management plane.
   1. Perform the Pre-Upgrade Tasks.
   2. Review the NSX Upgrade Checklist to track your work on the NSX upgrade process.
   3. Prepare your infrastructure for the NSX upgrade.
   4. Back up the existing NSX Manager.
   5. Ensure that alerts displayed on the NSX Alerts page are fixed.
   To download NSX, see the Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads page.
   Upgrade NSX to 4.2.2.1 .
   a) Upgrade the Upgrade Coordinator component.
   b) Upgrade NSX edges.
   c) Upgrade ESXi hosts.
       Note:
       •   In case of SR-IOV enabled worker nodes or if the worker nodes cannot be migrated to another ESXi
           host, follow these steps and then proceed with ESXi upgrade in NSX.
           1. Drain the pods of the worker node VMs
           2. Manually power OFF the worker node VMs
        For detailed instructions to manually power OFF the worker node VMs, see Steps 3 and 4 in
        Upgrade ESXi that Runs Tanzu Kubernetes Worker Node VMs Configured with SR-IOV.
      • In case of vSphere Lifecycle Manager-enabled Cluster, follow the instructions in Upgrade a vSphere
        Lifecycle Manager-enabled Cluster.
   d) Upgrade NSX manager.
   1. Perform the post-upgrade tasks to verify that the NSX upgrade is successful.
   2. After the NSX upgrade is successful, verify that the clusters prepared for NSX are in the Success state:
      a. Log in to NSX Manager using Virtual IP (VIP) address.
      b. Navigate to System > Fabric > Node > Host Transport Nodes.
      c. Verify that all the clusters prepared for NSX are in Success state without any error.
      d. If there is an error on the ESXi hosts in the cluster, reconfigure the transport node by selecting the
         CONFIGURE NSX option on the cluster using the existing transport node profile. If there is any other
         upgrade issue, see Troubleshooting Upgrade Failures.
   3. Update the NSX certificate in the TCA Appliance Manager UI by re-entering the NSX credentials and
      accepting the certificate.
       a. Log in to TCA Appliance Manager UI for TCA-CP.
       b. Click the Configuration tab.
       c. Select NSX.
       d. Click Edit and enter the NSX admin user password.
       e. Click Save.

Upgrade vCenter
   This section describes how to upgrade vCenter to 8.0 U3x, where x represents any patch version on top of
   8.0 U3.
   •   Log in to the vCenter Server Appliance Management Interface (VAMI) and verify that the statuses of all
       the vCenter services are healthy and started.
   •   Take a VM snapshot of the vCenter appliance. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.


                                                                                                                  249
   To download vCenter, see the Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads page.
   Upgrade the vCenter Appliance. For instructions, see Patching and Updating vCenter Server 8.0
   Deployments.
   Note:
   You can also update vCenter using Telco Cloud Automation. For instructions, see User Scenarios in
   Infrastructure Lifecycle Management Workflows.
   vCenter is upgraded successfully and all services are up and running.

Upgrading ESXi
   This section describes how to upgrade ESXi to 8.0 U3x, where x represents any patch version on top of
   8.0 U3.
   Follow the appropriate ESXi upgrade procedure based on the ESXi configuration:
   •   Upgrade ESXi that runs Tanzu Kubernetes worker node VMs configured with SR-IOV.
   •   Upgrade ESXi that runs VMs configured without SR-IOV.
   When you upgrade an ESXi host, vSAN is upgraded automatically. After upgrading all the ESXi hosts,
   upgrade vSAN cluster objects such as vSAN on-disk format and vSAN HCL DB.
   Note: To download ESXi, see the Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads page.

   Upgrade ESXi that Runs Tanzu Kubernetes Worker Node VMs Configured with SR-IOV
   If the ESXi server is running Tanzu Kubernetes Worker Node VMs configured with the SR-IOV network
   adapter or if the worker nodes cannot be migrated to another ESXi host, manually power OFF the worker
   node VMs and then upgrade ESXi.
   1. For each ESXi host in the vSphere cluster, identify the list of Tanzu Kubernetes worker node VMs with
      SR-IOV network adapters.
       Note:
      Make a note of the names of the worker node VMs in the ESXi host.
   2. SSH into TCA-CP VM where the corresponding Management Cluster is deployed.
   3. For each worker node VM with the SR-IOV network adapter, identify the Tanzu Kubernetes workload
      cluster that the worker node VM is part of and then drain the pods of the worker node VM:
      a) Log in to TCA-CP as an admin or root user.
      b) Open the TCA command line utility by running these commands in sequence:

           ccliPodName=`kubectl get pods -A | grep ccli | awk '{ print $2 }'`




                                                                                                              250
       kubectl exec --stdin --tty $ccliPodName              -n tca-cp-cn -- ccli-shell
c) List all the Tanzu Kubernetes management clusters in the bootstrapper.

       ccli>>list mc

   Note:
   Make a note of the index number of the management cluster (for example, MC1), where you want to
   look for the worker node VM.
d) Go to the Tanzu Kubernetes management cluster MC1.

       ccli>>go <index number of the Tanzu Kubernetes management cluster>
e) List the Tanzu Kubernetes workload clusters managed by the management cluster MC1.

       ccli>>list wc

   Note:
   Make a note of the index number of the workload cluster (for example, WC1), where you want to
   look for the worker node VM.
f) List the names and namespaces of all workload clusters managed by the management cluster MC1.

       kubectl get clusters -A

   Note:
   Make a note of the name and namespace of the workload cluster WC1, where you want to look for
   the worker node VM.
g) Go to the workload cluster WC1 managed by the management cluster MC1.

       ccli>>go <index number of Tanzu Kubernetes workload cluster>
h) List all the worker node VMs in the workload cluster WC1 and verify whether the list shows the
   worker node VM that you are looking for.

       ccli>>list nodes

   •  If the worker node VM you are looking for is shown in the worker node list of the workload cluster
      WC1, continue to step 3g.
   • If the worker node VM you are looking for is not shown in the worker node list of the workload
      cluster WC1, repeat steps 3e and 3f for the remaining workload clusters managed by the
      management cluster MC1.
   • If the worker node VM you are looking for is not shown in the worker node list of all the workload
      clusters managed by the management cluster MC1, repeat steps 3b through 3f for the remaining
      management clusters.
i) After identifying the workload cluster that the worker node VM is part of, pause the health check of
   the worker node VM by running the following commands in sequence:

       ccli>>list mc
       ccli>>go <index number of the management cluster that the worker node VM
        belongs to>




                                                                                                           251
        kubectl patch cluster <cluster_name> --type merge -p '{"spec":
         {"paused": true}}' -n <cluster_namespace>

       cluster_name specifies the name of the workload cluster that the worker node VM belongs to.
       cluster_namespace specifies the namespace of the workload cluster that the worker node VM
       belongs to.
    j) Drain the pods of the worker node VM by running the following commands in sequence:

        ccli>>list wc
        ccli>>go <index number of the Tanzu Kubernetes workload cluster that the
         worker node VM belongs to>
        kubectl drain <worker_node_name> --ignore-daemonsets --delete-local-data
         --force

       worker_node_name specifies the name of the worker node VM.
   k) Repeat Steps 3a-3h for the remaining worker node VMs that use SR-IOV network adapters on the
       ESXi host.
4. Power OFF all the worker node VMs that use SR-IOV network adapters on the ESXi host.
5. In Lifecycle Manager, apply the baseline to the ESXi host and remediate. For more information, see
   Remediating ESXi Hosts Against vSphere Lifecycle Manager Baselines.
    Note:
   If you are using vSphere LCM-enabled clusters, upgrade ESXi hosts by following the instructions in
   Upgrade a vSphere Lifecycle Manager-enabled Cluster.
6. After the ESXi host remediation is completed, power ON all the worker node VMs that use the SR-IOV
   network adapter on the ESXi host.
7. Uncordon each worker node VM by running the following commands in sequence:

     ccli>>list mc
     ccli>>go <index number of the management cluster>
     ccli>>list wc
     ccli>>go <index number of the workload cluster>
     kubectl get nodes
     kubectl uncordon <worker node name>

8. Resume the health check of each worker node VM:

     kubectl patch cluster <cluster_name> --type merge -p '{"spec": {"paused":
      false}}' -n <cluster_namespace>

    cluster_name specifies the name of the workload cluster that the worker node VM belongs to.
   cluster_namespace specifies the namespace of the workload cluster that the worker node VM belongs
   to.
9. Repeat Steps 1-8 for the remaining ESXi hosts in the vSphere cluster.
The ESXi host is successfully upgraded and rebooted.

Upgrade ESXi that Runs VMs Configured without SRIOV
If the ESXi server is running VMs without the SR-IOV network adapter, follow these steps to upgrade the
ESXi server.
Use one of the following methods to upgrade the ESXi server. For more information, see the VMware ESXi
Upgrade Guide.
•   GUI installer
•   Scripts
•   ESXCLI


                                                                                                          252
    •   vSphere Auto Deploy
    •   vSphere Lifecycle Manager
    The ESXi host is successfully upgraded and rebooted.

    Upgrade a vSAN Cluster
    When you upgrade an ESXi host, vSAN is upgraded automatically. After upgrading all the ESXi hosts,
    upgrade the vSAN cluster objects such as vSAN on-disk format and vSAN HCL DB.
    Note:
    The disk format upgrade is optional. If you use a previous disk format version, your vSAN cluster continues
    to run smoothly. For best results, upgrade to the latest on-disk format that provides the complete feature
    set of vSAN. For more information, see About the Virtual SAN Disk Format.
    (Optional) Upgrade the vSAN Disk Format Using vSphere Client.
    vSAN disks are upgraded successfully.
    Verify that the vSAN cluster upgrade is successful.

Upgrade Aria Products
    Upgrading VMware Aria products involves upgrading Aria Operations for Logs, Aria Operations, Aria
    Automation Orchestrator, and Aria Operations for Networks.
    •   Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations for Logs cluster nodes. For instructions, see Creating a
        Snapshot of a VM.
    •   Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations nodes. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
    •   Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Automation Orchestrator deployment. For instructions, see Creating a
        Snapshot of a VM.
                CAUTION:
               Aria Automation Orchestrator 8.x does not support memory snapshots. Before taking the
               snapshot of the Aria Automation Orchestrator deployment, ensure that theSnapshot the virtual
               machine's memory option is deactivated.
    •   Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations for Networks deployment. For instructions, see KB55829
        and Backup a VMware Aria Operations for Networks Deployment.
    To download these components, see the Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads page.
    For information about compatible versions for Aria upgrades, see the VMware Interoperability Matrix.
    1. Upgrade Aria Operations for Logs from 8.18 to 8.18.3.
        Note:
       • You must upgrade agents in the required VMs to capture data appropriately.
    2. Upgrade Aria Operations from 8.18 to 8.18.3. For instructions, see the Aria Operations 8.18 Release
       Notes.
                CAUTION:
                The NTP service does not start automatically following the Aria Operations upgrade, failing
                to restore the Aria Operations cluster to online. As a workaround, follow the instructions in
                KB93793 after the upgrade.
                For more information, see VMware Aria Operations Upgrade Prerequisites and VMware Aria
                Operations Software Updates.
    3. Upgrade Aria Automation Orchestrator from 8.18 to 8.18.1. For instructions, see the Aria Automation
       Orchestrator Upgrade Guide.
    4. Continue using Aria Operations for Networks 6.13.



                                                                                                                  253
Post-Upgrade Checklist
   After upgrading Telco Cloud Platform, verify that all the components are working as expected.

   Category                            Component                          Verify

   Physical Infrastructure             Network                            •   All required VLANs are inter-
                                                                              routable.
                                                                          •   ESXi physical uplinks are
                                                                              functioning.
                                                                          •   MTU is configured properly on
                                                                              physical switches.
                                                                          •   NTP, DHCP, and DNS servers
                                                                              are accessible.
                                                                          •   External connectivity is
                                                                              working (if external access is
                                                                              required).
                                                                          •   External Harbor server is
                                                                              reachable (if used).

                                       Compute                            •   Open the host client on a
                                                                              browser and verify that you
                                                                              can log in to the host.
                                                                          •   Ensure that no warnings or
                                                                              alerts are displayed on the
                                                                              Host Client UI.

                                       Storage                            •   vSAN is accessible and is in a
                                                                              healthy state.

   NFVI & VIM                          Management and Resource            •   Management and Resource
                                       vCenter Servers                        vCenter Servers are
                                                                              accessible.
                                                                          •   All cluster properties are
                                                                              correct.
                                                                          •   All vSphere Distributed
                                                                              Switches are working properly.
                                                                          •   All vSphere Distributed
                                                                              Switches are configured
                                                                              with the same MTU as their
                                                                              residing physical networks.
                                                                          •   Ensure that the root password
                                                                              expiry is set as per your
                                                                              company policy.
                                                                          •   Ensure that NTP is configured
                                                                              for all Telco Cloud Platform
                                                                              components.




                                                                                                               254
Category                       Component               Verify

                               VMware Cloud Director   •   VMware Cloud Director is
                                                           accessible using Avi Load
                                                           Balancer and individual Cell
                                                           FQDN.
                                                       •   VMware Cloud Director
                                                           is successfully upgraded,
                                                           registered with vCenter, and
                                                           configured to work with NSX.

                               NSX                     •   NSX Manager and its
                                                           component connection status
                                                           are up and in healthy status
                                                           (green color).
                                                       •   No critical alerts or warnings
                                                           displayed in the NSX UI.
                                                       •   All NSX edge nodes and ESXi
                                                           hosts are connected and
                                                           operational.
                                                       •   For ESXi and edge nodes, the
                                                           password expiry setting for the
                                                           admin, root, and audit users
                                                           are aligned with your company
                                                           policy.
                                                       •   Admin, root, and audit account
                                                           policies comply with security
                                                           standards.
                                                       •   TEP connectivity is validated.
                                                       •   Sufficient TEP IP pools (Edge
                                                           and Host) are avaialble
                                                           for future edge and host
                                                           deployments.

Airgap Server                                          •   Airgap server is accessible,
                                                           and its Harbor server is ready
                                                           with all repositories and Helm
                                                           charts.

Aria Automation Orchestrator                           •   Aria Automation Orchestrator
                                                           is accessible, and you can run
                                                           the workflows.




                                                                                             255
Category                           Component                      Verify

Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster                                          •   All pods in the Tanzu
                                                                      Kubernetes management and
                                                                      workload clusters must be up
                                                                      and running.
                                                                  •   Users must be able to
                                                                      instantiate new Cloud-native
                                                                      Network Functions (CNFs).
                                                                  •   Users must be able to deploy
                                                                      new Tanzu Kubernetes
                                                                      clusters.
                                                                  •   Run diagnostics on
                                                                      Kubernetes clusters through
                                                                      TCA UI.
                                                                  •   Verify and fix the alerts
                                                                      displayed on the TCA
                                                                      dashboard.

Operations Management              Aria Operations for Logs       •   Aria Operations for Logs is
                                                                      accessible. The syslog data is
                                                                      actively collected and stored.
                                                                  •   All the configured content pack
                                                                      components are accessible.

                                   Aria Operations                •   Aria Operations is accessible.
                                                                  •   All configured management
                                                                      components are accessible.

                                   Aria Operations for Networks   •   Aria Operations for Network is
                                                                      accessible. The network data
                                                                      is actively received and stored.

Business Continuity and Disaster   Live Site Recovery             •   Live Site Recovery is
Recovery                                                              successfully upgraded on the
                                                                      protected (the Management
                                                                      cluster) and recovery sites,
                                                                      and the sites are paired.
                                                                  •   The protected and recovery
                                                                      sites are connected, and the
                                                                      pair appears on the home
                                                                      page of the Live Site Recovery
                                                                      user interface.
                                                                  •   Live Site Recovery from both
                                                                      the protected and recovery
                                                                      sites are accessible.




                                                                                                         256
    Category                             Component                          Verify

                                         vSphere Replication                •   The vSphere Replication
                                                                                appliance is successfully
                                                                                upgraded on the protected
                                                                                (Management Pod) and
                                                                                recovery sites, and the sites
                                                                                are paired.
                                                                            •   vSphere Replication servers
                                                                                are registered with respective
                                                                                vCenter Servers for both
                                                                                protected and recovery sites.

    Delete Snapshots                     All management components          •   Verify that all the components
                                                                                are working as expected.
                                                                            •   Once verified, delete the
                                                                                snapshots that you took before
                                                                                the upgrade.



Harbor for CNFs Deployment and Configuration Guide
   Describes the process of deploying and configuring Harbor as a CNF through Telco Cloud Automation.



Introduction
   Harbor is an open-source registry that secures artifacts with policies and role-based access control,
   ensures images are scanned and free from vulnerabilities, and signs images as trusted. VMware Telco
   Cloud Platform™ users use Harbor to store Helm charts and docker images required for CNF deployment.
   Currently, Telco Cloud Platform users deploy Goharbor offline installer on a custom VM using Docker
   Compose. Docker Compose lacks features like auto-scaling, high availability and advanced networking
   options that are essential for handling production workloads with high demand.
   Note: Starting from release 4.0.1, VMware Telco Cloud Platform offers Harbor CNF catalog on top of CaaS
   clusters. This catalog is based on the open-source goharbor project.
   The following are advantages of deploying Harbor as a CNF:
   •   It provides better performance with scale architecture (see Harbor Concurrency Limits).
   •   VMware Telco Cloud Automation™ (TCA) can be used to manage Harbor LCM operations such as:
       •   Harbor installation using CNF instantiation flow.
       •   Harbor Day-1 operations such as Harbor reconfiguration, Harbor version upgrade, Harbor cert
           rotation, Harbor Trivy Database update and so on.
       •   Raising alarms when Harbor pods are down using TCA Alarm service.
       •   CNF Inventory detailed view of Harbor pods on TCA UI.
       •   Harbor observability, monitoring, and maintenance tasks using workload cluster Add-ons such as:
           •   Backup and restore of Harbor pods using Velero addon.
           •   Log collection of Harbor pods using Fluentbit add-on.
           •   Provision of Persistent volume for Harbor pods using vSphere-csi add-on.
   Telco Cloud Platform Building Blocks



                                                                                                                 257
                                          Telco Cloud
                                                           4G/ 5G VNF    4G/ 5G CN
                                       Solutions Layer
     Live Site Recovery


                                                           Telco Cloud
                                                                          Harbor
                                                           Automation
                                         Telco Cloud
     Backup & Restore                  Platform Layer
                                                           Tanzu
                                                           Kubernetes
                                                           Grid


                                                                          VMware
                                                          Cloud
    vSphere Replication                                                   Integrated
                                         Telco Cloud      Director
                                                                          OpenStac
                                        Infrastructure
                                             Layer
                                                          vSphere         vSAN



                                            Physical
                                        Infrastructure    Compute         Storage
    Business Continuity
                                             Layer
             Layer

Harbor CNF Architecture
Harbor CNF consists of the following components:
•   Harbor Registry to host images and charts
•   Load Balancer to provide fault tolerance for harbor




                                                                            258
